Added alternate constructor design to mdarray (#369)
ORNL/cpp-proposals-pub: P1684-mdarray/P1684.md

Finally, `mdarray` does not have the analog of `mdspan`'s constructor that takes an `array<IndexType, N>` of dynamic extents.  This avoids any ambiguity or confusion with a constructor that takes a container instance, in the case where the `container` happens to be an `array<IndexType, N>`.

> ### Alternative constructor design

Reviewer: Is this the "alternative" design (meaning the "Plan B" that we would accept in case LEWG rejected Plan A), or the design that we want LEWG to approve?  If the latter, should we consider not using the word "alternative" here?  For example, should we call this "New R5 constructor design"?

Author: Well, it's the one **I** want LEWG to approve. :-)

I'll change the phrasing.  I want to emphasize that this hasn't been seen yet.

We can both significantly reduce the number of constructors *and*
gain the ability to emplace the container.  This requires
a bit of shuffling of the arguments, adding a tag and adding a parameter pack.

* Whenever `extents_type` or `mapping_type` is provided, it must come first.

> * Whenever an `mdarray` is constructed with `val`, it must be preceded by a tag.

Reviewer: Would you consider elaborating "`val`" just a bit?

```suggestion
* Whenever an `mdarray` is constructed with (the `value_type`) `val`, it must be preceded by a tag.
```

Author: Sure, no problem.

> * Add a parameter pack `Args...` that essentially emplace constructs the container.

Reviewer: The word "essentially" doesn't add meaning here.  Would you consider the following?

```suggestion
* Add a parameter pack `Args...` that is used to emplace construct the container.
```

Author: Sure, no problem.

> The original adaptors couldn't do this, because variadics didn't exist in C++98.

Reviewer: Would you consider elaborating "the original adapters" here?

```suggestion
The original container adaptors in the C++98 Standard Library couldn't do this, because variadic template parameters didn't exist in C++98.
```

Author: I'll rephrase it as "the container adaptors introduced in C++98".  They aren't 100% the same because of move semantics (which leads to the current problem with `priority_queue` not guaranteed to maintain its invariants).

We can and should do better now that we have better language facilities.

> In the original design,

Reviewer: Does this mean the R4 mdarray design?  If so, would you consider clarifying that?

```suggestion
In the R4 mdarray design,
```

Author: Sure.

> the unconstrained `Alloc` parameter is in a weird spot in the constructors

Reviewer: Why is that "weird"?  Is the problem that this makes it impossible to add a parameter pack to be forwarded for emplace-constructing the container?

Author: It is a parameter that goes with the container, but is not right next to the container parameter, like it is for `stack`, `queue` and `priority_queue`.

    constexpr mdarray(container_type&& c,
                      const extents_type& ext,
                      const Alloc& a);
  template<class Alloc>
    constexpr mdarray(container_type&& c,
                      const mapping_type& m,
                      const Alloc& a);
```

```cpp
  template<class... Args>
    explicit(sizeof...(Args) == 0)
    constexpr mdarray(const extents_type& ext,
                      Args&&... args);

  template<class... Args>
    explicit(sizeof...(Args) == 0)
    constexpr mdarray(const mapping_type& m,
                      Args&&... args);
```

---

```cpp
  constexpr mdarray(const extents_type& ext,
                    const value_type& val);
  constexpr mdarray(const mapping_type& m,
                    const value_type& val);

  template<class Alloc>
    constexpr mdarray(const extents_type& ext,
                      const value_type& val,
                      const Alloc& a);
  template<class Alloc>
    constexpr mdarray(const mapping_type& m,
                      const value_type& val,
                      const Alloc& a);
```

```cpp
  template<class... Args>
    constexpr mdarray(const extents_type& ext,
                      fill_t,

>                       const value_type& val,

Reviewer: Should we consider adding an example to clarify why this is needed?  For instance, if `value_type` is `size_t`, just having the `Args&&...` wouldn't be enough to construct the container correctly.

                                    OtherExtents, 
                                    OtherLayoutPolicy,
                                    OtherContainer>& other,
                      Args&&... args);

  template<class OtherElementType, class OtherExtents,
           class OtherLayoutPolicy, class Accessor,
           class... Args>
    explicit(@_see below_@)
    constexpr mdarray(const mdspan<OtherElementType,
                                   OtherExtents,
                                   OtherLayoutPolicy,
                                   Accessor>& other,
                      Args&&... args);
```

---

```cpp
template <class Container, class... Integrals>
requires((is_convertible_v<Integrals, size_t> && ...) &&
         sizeof...(Integrals) > 0)
explicit mdarray(const Container&, Integrals...)
  -> mdarray<typename Container::value_type,
             dextents<size_t, sizeof...(Integrals)>,
             layout_right,
             Container>;

template<class Container, class Extents>
mdarray(const Container&, const Extents&)
  -> mdarray<typename Container::value_type,
             Extents,
             layout_right,

>              Container>;

Reviewer: Do we think these deduction guides will work in practice?  Would we need to "constrain" `Extents` here?

Author: I think the `requires` clause at line 584 is sufficient to differentiate it from the other guides.

I don't know that it works in practice.  These two are identical CTAD constructors which map to two different types:

```c++
template<class Container, class Extents>
mdarray(Container&&, const Extents&)
  -> mdarray<typename Container::value_type, Extents, layout_right, Container>;

template<class Container, class Mapping>
mdarray(Container&&, const Mapping&)
  -> mdarray<typename Container::value_type, typename Mapping::extents_type, layout_right, Container>;
```

Another way to write the part before the `->` is:
```c++
template<class A, class B>
mdarray(A&&, const B&)
```

We'd be counting on `typename Mapping::extents_type` being SFINAEd out when `Mapping == std::extents<...>` AND being a better match when it is a `layout_*::mapping<...>`.  I don't think that works (but I could be mistaken).

Reviewer: @nliber wrote:
> I don't know that it works in practice. 

Would you consider writing a brief test?

Author: Let me try a simpler explanation.

Every function to the left of the `->` in the set of explicit deduction guides are functions added to the overload set when using `mdarray` without any angle brackets.  (There are also implicit deduction guides which also adds to the overload set.). Like every other kind of function in C++, one cannot have duplicates in the overload set.

Simple example:
```c++
template<typename T>
struct A {
    A(T&&) {}
};

template<typename T>
A(T&&)->A<T>;

template<typename T>
A(T&&)->A<T>;
```
[Compiler Explorer](https://godbolt.org/z/1Yah1KMaT) says:

```
<source>:10:1: error: deduction guide 'template<class T> A(T&&)-> A<T>' redeclared
   10 | A(T&&)->A<T>;
      | ^
<source>:7:1: note: 'template<class T> A(T&&)-> A<T>' previously declared here
    7 | A(T&&)->A<T>;
      | ^
Compiler returned: 1
```

Reviewer: @nliber Would you consider adding this argument to the paper?

I'm hoping we can avoid the mdspan experience of trying to mash a bunch of CTAD fixes in near the end of the process : - ) .
